---
layout: post
title: Welcome 
---

Welcome to my web site.  My name is Zac and I've been in IT for over 15 years.  I have a degree in Information Technology and Security along with a Masters of Business Administration.  

I have worked with computers since I was young, starting out figuring out the tape drive on a Commodore Vic-20 all the way up to now solving problems and creating solutions for businesses.

Though I still find time to work on my own projects as well, I always have something going on that I want to learn to expand my technology skill.

The name Red Lantern Tech comes from my own creativity. I have always had a good imagination and it has helped me throughout my career. Being able to creatively solve problems and come up with solutions for my clients has been one of the things that has helped me stand out. Red Lantern Tech comes from a location I had made in my Dungeons and Dragons playing days, the Red Lantern Inn Bar and Grill. It is a mystical bar with good food, endless tacos, and the best entertainment you can imagine. Also it a good place to start an adventure. So hopefully with this blog I can start new adventures with technology and learning.

I had originally conceived this site as a blog but decided against that.  However, feel free to check out my GitHub where I keep copies of projects and notes
that I work on.  Also if you are curious about my qualifications, click the About Section Above.  This was built by forking off Barry Clark's Excellent Project.  

Thank you and Take Care
73's

[Build a Blog with Jekyll and GitHub Pages](https://www.smashingmagazine.com/2014/08/build-blog-jekyll-github-pages/)

### Contact me

[blog@redlantern.tech](mailto:blog@redlantern.tech)